Hello everyone! In this lesson, we will briefly look at collisions. Collisions are responsible for the
physical interactions of objects in the world. We have already dealt with them indirectly. In the base character class
, a collision component is created - a capsule, thanks to it we do not fall through the floor, we are able to jump up
steps and also crash into another character, that is, we cannot go through him through and through.
Also, thanks to the collision, we can make logical trace, that is, in the code, see
if the segment from point A to point B intersects any object on the scene. Thus, for example, we will do shooting
with you . Before we get started, let's take a look at how to launch the console in the UE. Click on the
apostrophe sign . An input field has opened in the viewport at the bottom. In this field, we can enter various debug commands.
For example, let's display the number of frames per second. To do this, let's enter stat fps.
Press Enter and the number of frames per second is displayed in the upper right corner.
There is a huge amount of debug commands, for example, we can also display GPU statistics.
To hide the debug information, it is enough to enter the same command again,
or you can enter the Stat None command - this command will hide all the statistics that we have opened. Let's introduce a command
called Show Collision - this command displays all collisions that are on the scene.
Capsules have appeared around the characters. This is very convenient because the collision components are
purely logical and are hidden in the game by default. We can set the key to open the console
in project settings. The apostrophe key is not entirely obvious, so you can override it.
In the search, we enter console and find a property in which we can specify the key we are interested in.
Moving on to collisions. We take out the cube object and also the sphere object onto the scene. Go to the details panel
and find a category called Collision. This category defines all object collision
settings . We will now be interested in the property Collision Preset. The default is Default.
Change preset to Custom. All properties are available for editing in this preset.
The first property is Collision Enabled. This enum has several elements. The first one is
NoCollision. From the name it is clear that with this setup, all collisions will be ignored. The second element is
QueryOnly - if the body does not have physical simulation enabled, or we are only interested in the logical
trace with the given object, then we select this element. The third element is used when the body has
physics simulation enabled , and the fourth one combines the second and third options. Next comes the property, which contains the type of the object.
It is called Object Type. If you open the combobox, you can see what types are available
by default: world static, dynamic, pawn, and so on. Let's leave the object type as world static. Next is a
table that specifies how an object of this type reacts with objects of other types,
that is, how world static reacts with another world static, world dynamic, or with pawn.
Objects can ignore each other, generate intersection events, or block each other.
Above is the category trace responses, it has two channels defined. One is called visibility, the
other camera. These channels are virtual, they are used to obtain information during
logical trace. We will also see this soon. If we open the blueprint of the character.
Let's select the component of the capsule. We will also find the Collision category in the details panel. You can see that
by default the capsule has preset - pawn. Let's also change to Custom.
Object type is set to pawn and all other objects react to block. If we now start the game, then the pawn object
is blocked with the world static object, that is, we cannot go through objects of this type.
If the sphere has a reaction with pawn - overlap, then we cannot go through the cube, but we can go through the sphere.
The camera also has an interesting effect - it is somewhere in the middle of the character. This is due to the spring arm component.
If we select it, then in the details panel we can find a property called probe channel.
That is, in fact, our spring arm component also knows how to physically interact with the world.
And the name of the collision channel is called camera. That is, we can change the reaction to the camera channel in the sphere
and set it to Ignore. One of the reasons why there is a collision in the spring arm component
is that when we are standing next to a wall, we will not be able to look behind it.
Now we are quietly walking through the sphere, because the camera channel is ignored. Move on. We also
have the ability to understand when we collided with an object, or when we crossed an object in the world.
Let's reopen the character's blueprint and on the event graph the character has an event
by default called ActorBeginOverlap. Let's print the name of the object that we are crossing.
We output to the print string node and connect the other actor pin to the string pin. Additionally, we need to set the
property to true, which is called generate overlap events. It is set to false by default.
This is done from an optimization point of view. Let's also change the collision preset of the cube. Choose custom.
Set generate overlap events to true and react to pawn with overlap. We launch.
Cross the cube - prints the cube, cross the sphere prints - sphere. Similarly, you can
get information about collisions. To do this, you need to activate a property called
Simulation Generates Hit Events. It is at the very top and the event that occurs on collisions
is called EventHit. And the last moment. Let's take a look at how
you can create your own channels and object types. Find the Collision category in the project settings.
There are 3 subcategories: object channels, trace channels and preset, that is, roughly speaking, we can create
our own preset by clicking on the new button. We can set a rule for how some objects react with others, or we can
change an existing preset. Let's create our own channel for the object. Click on the new object channel button.
A window opens. Enter the name Enemy and leave the default response block.
Let's create another channel. We call it Geometry and set the default behavior to Ignore.
That is, all types of objects will ignore this type of object by default.
In the object type, two data types immediately became available: enemy and geometry. Let's set the
cube to geometry, and for the sphere, let's set the object type to enemy.
We have already edited the interaction matrix. For an object of type Enemy, we set the Block reaction with an object of the Pawn type,
and for a cube, which is of the geometry type, we set the Ignore reaction to pawn.
Also, if we open the blueprint of the character, we can see that the collision of the pawn object has a default
reaction with enemy - block, and with geometry - ignore. We start the game.
We cross the cube and crash into the sphere. Thus, we can create
our own types of objects, presets, channels. Everything can be fine-tuned in the Unreal Engine.